Richie Richard Robotic Bank Loans Explained
*******************************************

What is a loan in the Richie Richard Robotic Bank?  Fundamentally, it
is a transaction object, one that grants an account holder permission
to reach a deeper negative balance than the default debt limit rules.
The absolute constraint is that all loans must be backed by some real
monetary quantity that is actually available in the present, not a
quantity that is potentially available in the future.  That being
said, loans that are less than or equal to an account balance don't
have very much effect in the Richie Richard Robotic Bank.

A fool-proof, completely automatic way to make loans is as follows.
There are three types of money.

1. Guaranteed withdrawal money.

2. Speculative withdrawal money: money deposited might never be
   available to be withdrawn.  "Loan forgiveness fund."

3. Eventual withdrawal money: money deposited might not be available
   for withdrawal immediately, but deadlines for available withdrawal
   at a future date can be negotiated.  This may involve court orders
   with the debtors in order for such agreements to be reached.
   "Unforgivable loan fund."

Loans must be funded with a positive balance of some sort of money.
Since withdrawal of #1 must be guaranteed at all times, it cannot be
used to fund loans.  Therefore, money of types #2 and #3 must be
deposited to fund loans.  The idea here is that the account owners of
the positive balances deposit their money with full, unambiguous
knowledge of the terms of its withdrawal.  If only money of types #1
and #2 are deposited, there is never a need for bank-employed human
judgement element.  After all, we said that the Richie Richard Robotic
Bank cannot have any employees: all human judgement elements are
handled by external "cash" banks.

The key point to remember about loans is that the primary rare time
there is a problem with loans is is due to a "bank run": everyone with
positive balances in the bank wants to withdraw their full balance, to
the point that the bank's total money balance goes negative due to the
outstanding loans that remain.  Money type #1 makes this phenomenon
ompletely unambiguous to account holders up front.  Money type #2
allows for loan forgiveness.  If the requestor of a loan requests loan
forgiveness and there is suitable reserve of #2 available, it is
transferred to their account to reach a balance of zero.  Or, if there
is a bank run and transferring any more money out of the bank would
result in negative balance, the reserve of #2 is held within the bank
to maintain positive balance when there are still outstanding loans.

Money type #3 is special in that the edge case does require some sort
of external human judgement.  So, how can this be supported in the
Richie Richard Robotic Bank?  The key idea is that the liability and
judgement can be passed on to a "cash" bank if needed, where there are
the human judgement resources to handle such a matter.  If there is a
bank run, the cash bank can notify account holders that there #3
reserve cannot be withdrawn and negotiate a date they want that money
available by.  The cash bank has access to the list of accounts with
outstanding loans.  These account holders are then negotiated with to
see if they can agree to a contract to satisfy the demands.  If they
can't, the dispute is handled in court.  Likewise, if contract
deadlines pass without satisfaction, these disputes are also handled
in court.  Due to the need for litigation to settle disputes, it is
likely that most parties, from depositors to lenders to cash banks,
would not want to take this path unless they really want to support
this kind of risk.

Although the banks of most worlds use money type #3 exclusively,
there's always room for other rules in other worlds!  Particularly
noteworthy is that #3 theoretically allows a maximum of _all_ the
money in the bank to be requested in a loan, whereas a combination of
#1 and #2 would intrinsically never allow this.

Another thing to keep in mind.  If someone requests a forgivable loan
on _all_ such available funds in the bank and they do end up forgiving
it, other animals will probably learn of "who done it" and might take
the matter to court on their own terms, even though the banking system
technically allowed it.

Anyways, a combination of #1 and #2 is easiest to setup of starters,
but #3 is potentially the most powerful.

An important point to note.  When a loan is taken, the loan fund money
is "pinned": account holders cannot transfer that money out until the
loan is paid off.  So there needs to be additional fund attributes to
specify how much money is pinned within the loan funds.

----------

Now, another useful case to consider is account closure behavior.
What happens if a negative account is closed?  If all loans are
forgivable, the action is easy, just forgive all outstanding loans to
reach a balance of zero.  If the loans are unforgivable, then the
account cannot be closed until loans are paid off to reach a balance
of zero.  What if there is a positive balance at closure?  Now, this
is a little bit tricky as there are two possible actions.

1. The money is transferred to a forgivable loan reserve account.
   This is tricky because if everyone transfers there money out of the
   bank and quits using it, the money is stuck there, as there are no
   bank employees to make manual interventions.

2. The money is proportionately distributed into all account holder's
   #2 reserve.  This achieves the same effect for lending, but it
   doesn't have the issue of money being stuck in an inaccessible
   account.

3. This one is interesting.  A random lottery mechanism can be used to
   determine how to divide and distribute the money.  This allows for
   the possibility of someone randomly inheriting a lucky fortune.

4. Inheritance rules can be defined for account closures with positive
   balance.  If these become invalid, then the default choices are
   made.

5. Last resort.  If there is only one last bank account, it cannot be
   closed unless it is empty.  There might be a last resort cash bank
   transfer rule configured to allow closing the last non-empty
   account.  The cash banks started first, so they'll likely still be
   around at the end.

Why not go further with the lottery and allow for lottery deposit?
Then it is possible for animals to turn this into an industry.  Create
a business lottery account, set the closure rules to "lottery
type"... okay, no, they do the lottery transfers themselves, using
their own banking automation software.  But anyways, what remains is
the same.  Then they keep some money for themself and randomly
transfer out the rest.

Yes, then this makes things simpler for the core account software.  If
you want your money to be gambled away at account closure, then you
simply set an inheritance rule to the lottery account.

----------

Speaking of lotteries, now let's talk about stocks.  How is this
implemented?  Well, the basis for the stock money pool must be a #2 or
$3 type reserve to allow for uncertainty of withdrawal.  When shares
are bought, money is deposited and divided.  When shares are sold,
money is withdrawn and divided.  Easy as that.  There are no
guarantees of availability for either the business or the
shareholders.

That being said, the stock market software can be implemented as a
separate banking automation module, of course.

----------

Thus far, I have not mentioned interest on loans.  Indeed, the
previous methods described allow for effective zero-interest loans.
But, what if you want to add interest to the loans?  You can create a
special account in the bank to collect the surplus money paid interest
on the loans.  In the event of a forgiven/defaulted loan, you can
withdraw from this fund to bring negative accounts back to zero.  Of
course, as we've previously discussed, it can be problematic to have
accounts specific to the bank.  This can be solved simply using one of
the previously mentioned methods.  When the reserve is running high,
it can be paid into one of the uncertain withdrawal accounts as
interest.

The primary purpose of the special reserve account for loans is to
avoid subtracting money from account holders for paying forgiven
loans.  But, if you are still okay with this methodology, then you can
forgo the reserve account and deposit the interest directly into the
member accounts.

What exactly is the advantage of charging interest on loans?  In most
banks, the following assumptions are at hand.

1. The bank is old and pretty well established, so it has plenty of
   transaction history and reserve funds to draw from.

2. Plenty of loans are taken, so there are plenty of sources of
   reserve money available from charging interest.

However, if you're at a bank where the very first loan is being
granted, charging interest on a loan really does no good to ensure
that reserve money is available in case the loan is
forgiven/defaulted.

Fundamentally, in this bank, charging interest on loans is the only
way for the bank to get surplus money.  The only other way to get
surplus money would be to charge account holders a "tax."  However, in
this bank, such a "tax" is discretionary through the use of typifying
money into accounts with different rules on withdrawal reliability.

----------

Let's make a really super-slick summary here.  Three types of money in
the bank and their effects on a creditor and a debtor, if there are
only one of each in the whole banking system.

1. Creditor: Guaranteed withdrawal of deposited money  
   Debtor: Guaranteed denial of requested loans

2. Creditor: Speculative withdrawal of deposited money  
   Debtor: Speculative granting of forgivable loans

3. Creditor: Eventual withdrawal of deposited money  
   Debtor: Speculative granting of unforgivable loans

Another useful analogy to understand this.

1. "Checking account"

2. "Stock investments," speculative savings account

3. "Savings account" or "time deposits"

----------

Some final clarifying discussion.  All loans discussed thus far can
also be described as "unsecured loans," meaning that the borrower does
not need to pledge any asset.  In the case of forgivable loans, the
creditors/investors pledge their monetary assets as collateral.  The
goal, of primarily supporting unsecured loans is so that the Richie
Richard Robotic Bank can function completely automatically with zero
employees.  A loan that is secured against a tangible physical asset
requires an animal to physically steal that tangible physical asset.

Previously, it was stated that for unforgivable loans, outstanding
liabilities can be passed down to cash banks that have employees who
can file lawsuits and handle the litigation to resolve the dispute.

However, secured loans, especially loans that secure tangible physical
assets as collateral, simply cannot be made in any capacity at the
Richie Richard Robotic Bank.  These loans must be made at a cash bank
where there are employees with the capacity to steal away the secured
items if the borrower does not pay back their loan.  This method of
economic activity is most applicable at PQB: a secured loan is made at
the PQB Bank that pledges that Packer Bear has the right to steal the
named item if the loan fails to get paid.  If the loan is not paid,
Packer Bear can steal the item and sell it at PQB to recover the lost
money.  Since Packer Bear is the store owner, Packer Bear can set the
prices exactly to the amount of money owed, without worrying that the
market value of the item would put Packer Bear at a loss when the item
is sold.  Furthermore, the ability of Packer Bear to retain the item
in store until it is sold guarantees it will not leave Packer Bear's
possession until it is sold at the loaned value, unless it too is
stolen.

Dusty's Clubhouse Bank, by contrast, cannot make secured loans with as
little risk as the PQB Bank can make.  Once Dusty's Clubhouse Bank
steals the pledged item, Dusty's Clubhouse Bank needs to sell it at a
store like PQB to recover the money.  Unfortunately, Packer Bear at
PQB might not be willing to pay as much money for the item as was
loaned to the borrower.  Also, unlike PQB, the Dusty's Clubhouse Bank
doesn't have nearly as much space to securely store and physically
possess items until they are sold to recover the loaned value.

Now, even in the case of the PQB Bank, there can be problems with
secured loans.  Suppose Packer Bear has stolen Dusty's birthday crown
and has it for sale in PQB for $1,000,000 Dusty Dollars, since that
was the money owed from the unpaid loan.  It sits in the store for
months, and Packer Bear gets all burred up about there being too much
garbage in the store.  So, Packer Bear decides to just throw it out of
the store.  If the loan was entirely based off of reserve money from
the PQB Bank, then the end is as simple as this: Packer Bear doesn't
earn back the money taken out for the loan.  But, if a loan was taken
out of the Richie Richard Robotic Bank so that the PQB Bank could fund
a secured loan, then that loan must either be forgiven/defaulted or
Packer Bear must come up with a change in plan on how it will be paid
back.

----------

Another important type of loan.  It doesn't make too much of a
difference to creditors, only debtors... maybe.

Notorized forgivable loan.  This kind of loan is a forgivable loan,
but unlike the other kind of forgivable loan where the loan can be
forgiven at the discretionary request of the lender, this type of loan
can only be forgiven by court order.  In all other respects, this type
of loan is very similar to an unforgivable loan, but it does not carry
the risk of outstanding liabilities that may need to be passed down to
cash banks.

Given that the loan forgiveness is only by court order... technically
you could argue this should be a money type of its own.  This one,
after all, guarantees that creditors will not have their money
withdrawn to forgive a loan until they receive news of the lawsuit,
and this gives them a chance to participate in the court decision.

For the sake of this type of loan, you may want to also allow
configuration where only a small number of parties are involved in the
loan, rather than everyone in the bank, since this limits the number
of animals who are potentially involved in court.

----------

Now, this idea is interesting.  What if someone takes a forgivable
loan, they have their loan forgiven, but then they later decide they
can pay it all back?  What do you do?  Well, you can create a special
loan payment finishing option where their money can be distributed
across all accounts.  Now, this is a rather unusual idea.  Why would
you want to do that when depositing all additional earnings into the
#2 reserve is functionally identical for loan behavior?  Simply put,
the idea of this is the statement that such money is really not in any
way personally owned by you.  By definition, money that is in your #2
reserve is readily transferable by you without asking for permission.
Loan money can only be acquired by requesting permission.

Yeah, so loan forgiveness is not final.  I guess in the same vein, you
can deforgive a loan if you so wish.  However, completely paying off a
loan _is_ final.

----------

We've talked about loans extensively as being the means that allows
accounts to go negative, but not much about the default debt limits.
In the cash banks, debt limits are pretty lax and rule of thumb, but
we can make more precise rules for the Richie Richard Robotic Bank.
There is only a default allowable debt for personal debt, not business
debt.  However, personal debt must also be backed by loan reserves.
If personal debt is so great that this is not possible, then the
ability to withdraw any more money is halted.  Also, we have an
absolute limit on default allowable personal debt.  If there is
additional loan reserve money to handle this, a loan must be applied
for to grant the permission to use it.

This, of course, is if you want to enforce a model where there can
never be any outstanding liabilities to an external cash bank.  If, by
contrast, you are okay with the possibility out outstanding
liabilities, then you can simply set a fixed personal debt limit
without any restrictions.

----------

Here is one of the general rules of thumb with probably the typical
operation of the Richie Richard Robotic Bank.  By definition, the
Richie Richard Robotic Bank is pretty much richer than all other
banks.  Therefore, the idea of potentially passing on outstanding
liabilities to external banks is a precarious one: without other
constraints in place, this could be a liability so big that it is
nearly impossible for a cash bank to handle this.  Not allowing any
outstanding liabilities sidesteps this issue entirely.

Another option is to allow some outstanding liabilities, but the total
outstanding liability is capped.  Alas, literally with the Richie
Richard Robotic Bank, such an allowance would be miniscule, so why
bother?  Most of the allowance money would be supporting the strict
positive balance, and adding an allowance for a small balance of
outstanding liabilities is counting pennies.

In other words, the Richie Richard Robotic Bank must also be able to
function as "the lender of last resort."

----------

Regarding the limits on lending, there's a lot of rules and default
settings programmed into the Richie Richard Robotic Bank.  What if the
citizens want some of these rules changed?  How do they go about
getting them changed?  Two options:

1. The rules cannot be changed.  The magical, mystical fairy box runs
   without any understanding of how it works.

2. The rules can be changed only by court rulings or votes.

Or, another option, and probably the best one.  Virtually all rules
and policies that you could apply globally across the bank and dispute
between are discretionarily available to account holders.  Every
sub-type of money account is supported, and account holders can
individually determine how they want to deposit their money.  This
effectively allows virtually the same behavior even with court orders,
it's just that the means to that end relies on citizens deforgiving
changing the proportions of money types in their account, rather than
software changes from the magical mystical fairies above.

Whether you want a full reserve bank, fractional reserve bank, or
anything in between, the decision lies in the account holders that can
pick the policies as they please.

----------

It's important to note that even with forgivable loans, if the
forgivable loan taken is really huge, the account holders might
contest the sudden loss, decide that putting their money in the
forgivable loan fund was not really what they wanted, and file a class
action lawsuit.  The settlement in court can effect switching the loan
from a forgivable loan to an unforgivable loan.  In general, any
monetary transfer, regardless of what information is placed on the
books, can be disputed.

Regarding loans, the sysstem should provide documentation of who is
pinning money for taking out loans.  Additionally, there could even be
an option for anonymous loans that draw from all account holder's fund
pools.

But, especially in the case of very large loans, even if the loan is
booked as "anonymous," the animals will probably find out who did it.

----------

How does economic growth and expansion work?  Pretty similar to the
economies of other worlds, and even in Quacky's World.  First, the
growth in demand must be anticipated in advance.  If necessary, new
money is created at a mint.  The new mint money is then sent to
businesses or individuals.  That money is stored in reserve capital.
When new business arrives and trade effectively increases, the reserve
capital is paid out to the new players, and that completes its
circulation in the economy corresponding to the new growth in goods
and services.

How is a shrinking economy handled?  Basically, the reverse process.
The players exiting the economy send off their money to the remaining
players, which then mainly becomes reserve capital.  Then they just
keep more money in the bank... or, if they really don't want it, they
can send it back to the mint where it came from.  "Send it all back to
the magic piece of doost that it came from."

Inflation/deflation?  That mainly happens in economies eager to change
price points of goods and services.  When this happens, but the total
amount of trade, i.e. transactions, in the economy remains the same,
the effective reserve capital shrinks or grows.

----------------------------------------

Okay, now we need to refresh our super-slick summary with updated and
more detailed information.

In general, any monetary transfer, regardless of what information is
placed on the books, can be disputed.  Therefore, all account types
need a method of dispute resolution.

These are the actions that can be performed regarding loans:

* Grant/Deny
* Cancel
* Reduce loaned quantity
* Increase loaned quantity
* Forgive
* Deforgive
* Pay off
* "Future pay off," deposit positive balance to loan funds

In terms of loan policies, there are a few different types of money as
follows.  To start the discussion, three very basic money types are
covered in a basic bank system with only one money policy, one
creditor, and one debtor.

1. * Creditor: Guaranteed withdrawal of deposited money
   * Debtor: Guaranteed denial of requested loans
   * Interest: None
   * Permission requests: None
   * Loan anonymity: Not applicable
   * Transfer restrictions: None
   * Bank balances: Guaranteed positive balances
   * Loan dispute resolution: Not applicable
   * Common buzzwords: Full-reserve banking system, checking account

2. * Creditor: Speculative withdrawal of deposited money
   * Debtor: Speculative granting of forgivable loans
   * Interest: None
   * Permission requests: None
   * Loan anonymity: Banking system discloses identity of debtor to
     creditor(s)
   * Transfer restrictions: Money pinned for loans cannot be
     transferred to a different money type of same account
   * Bank balances: Guaranteed positive balance for bank, positive
     balance for creditor, negative balance for debtor
   * Loan dispute resolution: Out-of-court orders to cancel loan,
     court orders to cancel loan, out-of-court orders to pay off loan,
     court orders to pay off loan
   * Common buzzwords: ?, similar to stock market investments

3. * Creditor: Eventual withdrawal of deposited money  
   * Debtor: Speculative granting of unforgivable loans
   * Interest: None
   * Permission requests: None
   * Loan anonymity: Banking system discloses identity of debtor to
     creditor(s)
   * Transfer restrictions: Money pinned for loans cannot be
     transferred to a different money type of same account
   * Bank balances: Potential negative balance for bank, positive
     balance for creditor, negative balance for debtor.  However, bank
     balance can only go negative if (1) loan funding money not pinned
     or (2) if a loan is taken for more money than is in the entire
     bank.
   * Loan dispute resolution: Out-of-court orders to cancel loan,
     court orders to cancel loan, out-of-court orders to pay off loan,
     court orders to pay off loan
   * Common buzzwords: Fractional-reserve banking system, savings
     account, time deposits

----------

The discussion that follows results in a much more complicated banking
system.  There are a variety variables that can be configured on the
sides of the creditor and debtor.  The idea here is that creditors can
create a small number of account sub-types and assign values to the
variables based off of what policy they want.  In order for a loan to
be granted, there must be adequate creditor account balances available
to match the request of a debtor.  Otherwise, debtors are given the
option to either modify their loan options to the nearest match, or
debtors can negotiate with creditors to make such loan account funds
available.

Creditors can request that a minimum interest be paid on a loan.  In
this case, loan requests can only be granted when the loan specifies
an interest that is greater than or equal to the interest specified by
the creditors.  The effect of paying interest on a loan that is
completely paid off is that the creditor has additional money
deposited into their account, paid as interest on their positive
balance.  If a lender wants to request a loan that pays more than the
minimum interest, the creditor gets a bonus beyond their minimum
expectation.

Creditors can configure loan funds to require permission requests on
certain loan actions:

* Grant
* Increase loaned quantity
* Forgive

Permission requests can either be negotiated/settled in one of two
ways:

* Out-of-court
* In-court

Creditors can state that only in-court settlements are permitted for
their loan funds.

These loan actions do not make sense to require a permission request,
because the creditor will gladly accept the money:

* Cancel
* Reduce loaned quantity
* Deforgive
* Pay off
* "Future pay off," deposit positive balance to loan funds

----------

A final element to be addressed of loaning is that of plurality.  With
a simple two-account banking system, there is only ever one creditor
and one debtor, and they obviously know each other.  But, with many
more accounts in the bank, there is the possibility of taking loans
from funds set aside in only a few accounts versus taking loans from
funds set aside in all accounts.  Also, on the side of taking loans
from as many accounts as possible, the lender might want some
semblance of anonymity, except when identity must be disclosed by
court order.

So, there are two additional variables/dimensions by which loans can
be funded and requested.

* Plurality.  What degree of public funding is allowed?  The creditor
  can set the maximum number of creditors for which the loan fund is
  allowed for, or simply set "everyone."  Likewise, the debtor can set
  who will fund the loan, or simply set "everyone."

  Setting a smaller plurality is useful for easing the handling of
  permission requests and dispute resolution.  In other words, it
  makes it practical to require permission requests and notifications
  on lending actions.

* Anonymity.  Anonymity is only practically applicable for loans that
  involve a large number of creditors.  How many?  This might just
  be a rule of thumb, but say more than 30.

  This may be a bit tough to implement, but one or more loan
  attributes can be pledged anonymous.  If identity and contact
  information is pledged anonymous, permission requests but be
  negotiated by a party that can convey communications anonymously.

  Suffice it to say, anonymous loans work best with loans that (1) are
  "everyone" plurality, (2) are forgivable, and (3) require no
  permission requests.

----------------------------------------

Notable financial institutions outside of the Richie Richard Robotic
Bank.

Supported institutions:

* Cash bank, a bank with a physical presence and employees for
  processing cash, paper checks, mailing bank statements, granting
  secured loans, and handling disputes in court
* Mint or Federal Reserve

Unsupported institutions.  In other worlds, these institutions may be
critical to the operation of a bank:

* Stock market
* Credit card companies
* Credit rating agencies

----------------------------------------

So, you're wondering about existing implementations of a toy bank?
Look no further than the subject of in-game economies.

20190317/https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_economy

Alas, you'll realize what the here.  The vast majority of these
virtual economies are based in proprietary software.  The _de facto_
approach is for every game developer to code up their own economic
model from scratch.  The idea of reusable code bases is a foreign one.

Also, what appears to be conspicuously missing from most virtual
economies is loaning.  Most virtual economies operate with tons of
opportunities to earn money, so there are generally zero loans.  Also,
as a consequence of the large influx of money but very little in the
way of money sinks, there tends to be a lot of inflation, coined as
_mudflation_.

In these games, there is a lot of focus on adding money sinks as a
means of inflation control.  However, there is very little focus on
controlling inflation by decreasing the influx of money.

----------------------------------------

2019-03-26

So, here's some of the keys as to how the economy works in this game.
Much of the economic function is determined by the combination of
personal finance strategy and business strategy.

At the outset, these strategies can be planned and put in place by a
system of auto-billing, auto-paying, and policy configuration.

Afterwards, the automated rules can be run on "autopilot" until some
breaking condition is met, such as bankruptcy.  Then, a change in
strategy is needed.

Also, another fundamental concept is that money, being a symbol, can
have its meaning disputed.  When there are no disputes, autopilot is
perfect.  But, dispute resolution, when it must happen, is necessarily
a manual process, whether it be out-of-court or in-court.

If you can also find a way to automate changes in strategy and dispute
resolution, then your auto-billing, auto-paying machine isn't just a
tool under your command.  It is a sentient being of its own right, so
it gets paid rather than you.  Then you're back to the drawing board
to develop your own strategy and dispute resolution to plug yourself
back into the economy.
